


# What

Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE):  A Protocol for Network Address Translator (NAT) Traversal

https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8445



## Abstract

It describes a protocol for Network Address Translator
(NAT) traversal for UDP-based communication.  This protocol is called
Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE).  ICE makes use of the
Session Traversal Utilities for NAT (STUN) protocol and its
extension, Traversal Using Relay NAT (TURN).

## Overview

* ICE is a technique to collect the transport candidates which could be used in offer/answer (in m lines). The candidates are specified in the new SDP attributes, a=candidate: ….
* ICE uses STUN to get the reflective transport in the outermost NAT and/or TURN to allocate transports (in the outermost NAT and peers).
* ICE defines schemes to pair the candidates between local/remote clients, aiming to find connections between the two clients.
* ICE defines two type of clients, lite client (in public networks) and full clients (behind NAT).
 ICE defines two attributes in SDP, a=ice-pwd:xxxx and a=ice-ufrag, which could be used in the STUN and TURN attribute (USERNAME) and for message integrity.
* The STUN attribute, USERNAME is formed by cascading two peer usernames, such as client_a:client_b for messages from client a to client b. “password” is from the client which issues the messages.  
* ICE-TCP defines tcp as a transport, in addition to UDP, which could be used to pass through firewall with UDP disabled.

# Why

The computers behind NAT may not connect directly by their local IP.


# How

       

# Example


# Conclusion


# Reference