# What

Session Traversal Utilities for NAT (STUN) Usage for Consent Freshness

https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7675

* Consent:  The mechanism of obtaining permission from the remote
    endpoint to send non-ICE traffic to a remote transport address.
    Consent is obtained using ICE.  Note that this is an application-
    level consent; no human intervention is involved.

* Consent Freshness:  Maintaining and renewing consent over time.

## Abstract

To prevent WebRTC applications, such as browsers, from launching
attacks by sending traffic to unwilling victims, periodic consent to
send needs to be obtained from remote endpoints.

This document describes a consent mechanism using a new Session
Traversal Utilities for NAT (STUN) usage.

# Why

To prevent attacks on peers, endpoints have to ensure the remote peer
is willing to receive traffic.  Verification of peer consent before
sending traffic is necessary in deployments like WebRTC to ensure
that a malicious JavaScript cannot use the browser as a platform for
launching attacks.  This is performed both when the session is first
established to the remote peer using Interactive Connectivity
Establishment (ICE) [RFC5245] connectivity checks, and periodically
for the duration of the session using the procedures defined in this
document.

# How

Although ICE requires periodic keepalive traffic to keep NAT bindings
alive (see Section 10 of [RFC5245] and also [RFC6263]), those
keepalives are sent as STUN Indications that are send-and-forget, and
do not evoke a response.  A response is necessary for consent to
continue sending traffic.  Thus, we need a request/response mechanism
for consent freshness.  ICE can be used for that mechanism because
ICE implementations are already required to continue listening for
ICE messages, as described in Section 10 of [RFC5245].  STUN binding
requests sent for consent freshness also serve the keepalive purpose
(i.e., to keep NAT bindings alive).  Because of that, dedicated
keepalives (e.g., STUN Binding Indications) are not sent on candidate
pairs where consent requests are sent, in accordance with
Section 20.2.3 of [RFC5245].       

# Example


# Conclusion


# Reference