# What

Negotiating Media Multiplexing Using the Session Description Protocol (SDP)

https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8843

It defines a new SDP Grouping Framework extension, 'BUNDLE' that  can be used with the SDP Offer/Answer mechanism to negotiate the usage of a single transport (5-tuple) for sending and receiving media described by multiple SDP media descriptions ("m=" sections).
Such transport is referred to as a BUNDLE transport, and the media is referred to as bundled media. The "m=" sections that use the BUNDLE transport form a BUNDLE group.

## Abstract

This specification defines a new Session Description Protocol (SDP)
Grouping Framework extension called 'BUNDLE'.  

The extension can be
used with the SDP offer/answer mechanism to negotiate the usage of a
single transport (5-tuple) for sending and receiving media described
by multiple SDP media descriptions ("m=" sections).  Such transport
is referred to as a BUNDLE transport, and the media is referred to as
bundled media.  

The "m=" sections that use the BUNDLE transport form
a BUNDLE group.

This specification defines a new RTP Control Protocol (RTCP) Source
Description (SDES) item and a new RTP header extension.

# Why

When the SDP offer/answer mechanism [RFC3264] is used to negotiate
the establishment of multimedia communication sessions, if separate
transports (5-tuples) are negotiated for each individual media
stream, each transport consumes additional resources (especially when
Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE) [RFC8445] is used).  For
this reason, it is attractive to use a single transport for multiple
media streams.

# How

## SDP change

1. "a=group BUNDLE $mid1 $mid2" tag

2. "a=mid: $mid"

## RTCP change

* Defines a new RTCP SDES item [RFC3550], 'MID', which is used to carry identification-tags within RTCP SDES packets

RTCP MID SDES Item

```
0                   1                   2                   3
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|      MID=15   |     length    | identification-tag          ...
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
```

# Example

## SDP offer

```
v=0
o=alice 2890844526 2890844526 IN IP6 2001:db8::3
s=
c=IN IP6 2001:db8::3
t=0 0
a=group:BUNDLE foo bar

m=audio 10000 RTP/AVP 0 8 97
b=AS:200
a=mid:foo
a=rtcp-mux
a=rtpmap:0 PCMU/8000
a=rtpmap:8 PCMA/8000
a=rtpmap:97 iLBC/8000
a=extmap:1 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:mid

m=video 10002 RTP/AVP 31 32
b=AS:1000
a=mid:bar
a=rtcp-mux
a=rtpmap:31 H261/90000
a=rtpmap:32 MPV/90000
a=extmap:1 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:mid
```

## SDP Answer

```

v=0
o=bob 2808844564 2808844564 IN IP6 2001:db8::1
s=
c=IN IP6 2001:db8::1
t=0 0
a=group:BUNDLE foo bar

m=audio 20000 RTP/AVP 0
b=AS:200
a=mid:foo
a=rtcp-mux
a=rtpmap:0 PCMU/8000
a=extmap:1 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:mid

m=video 0 RTP/AVP 32
b=AS:1000
a=mid:bar
a=bundle-only
a=rtpmap:32 MPV/90000
a=extmap:1 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:mid
```


# Conclusion


# Reference